# A Village

People are scared of me.

I don't really like that. I want to make friends with people but instead I mostly scare them. It's because I'm a hybrid Chrystalis, and if you don't know what a hybrid is then what I look like is a perfect-summoned Chrystalis and those are very scary. Perfect-summoned mon are not under anyone's control and also they try to kill people a lot. I am not under anyone's control but I only try to kill people some of the time and only when my friends think it is a good idea.

We got me a glamour spell so I can look like a human, which is not scary, instead of a perfect-summoned mon, which is. It is hard to pretend to be human. I keep forgetting to use my hands to hold things instead of my tentacles. Lying is really hard in general; I don't really know how to guess which things I'm supposed to lie about, and even when I know that part, it's hard to remember what's supposed to be true instead.

Also we named me. I'm Citrine. I like it, it's a pretty name. I asked what it means and it's a shiny yellow rock! If we ever find one I think I want to keep it.

One of the people we met in the village was a friend of my friends' friend but he was not my friends' friend, because he was the Rainbird. We are not supposed to know he is the Rainbird. His name is Indra and he has really neat hair, it's part pink and part blue and very pretty. I would like it if I had hair like that. Different colours, though, I think the pink and blue would clash with my wings.

Me and Jacqueline talked to Indra some and he was very nice. He taught me how to play checkers, which is a really fun game. I think I would like to be his friend. Maybe sometime we will find out why he is the Rainbird and then we can ask him nicely to stop. Probably though that won't happen and we will have to fight him instead.

After we talked to Indra we took me to see a doctor! The doctor said I have organs, which is interesting. Apparently if you took away all my mon parts I would be very uncomfortable and probably die. I think I don't want that to happen. Being alive is neat. If I died then I could not play any more checkers!

Clarence figured out how to restore some power armour and gave it to Otto. It's weird to think about Otto without his power armour but he didn't have it before Clarence did that! Otto is a very power armour sort of person and I am glad he has it.

We thought a lot about what to do and then we decided we should go to Vidriot.

