# Regarding Mons

Hello, today I’ll be explaining a bit about Mon’s and Mediums, as well as their origins. 

Scarcely two and a half centuries ago since the writing of this book the Warp became all but inaccessible to us in all its forms. The Gods went silent and two entities probably made an Incursion into our reality. That last bit is speculative, the Incursion itself is shrouded in mystery and for all we know these two entities have been lying dormant for thousands of years. But based on the timing of events I’m somewhat skeptical of that. 

Magic had shifted, down to its fundamental level, to the point where calling it magic at all might seem slightly misleading. It is undeniable to say that the source of the ‘magic’ used by people today are drawn from the Barbed Wheel and the Star of Oblivion. 

The comparison between the Mons and Daemons are an interesting one to bring up, because it highlights this fundamental difference that I’m trying to highlight. Daemons were, fundamentally, beings of chaos, no two were alike and they tended to be incredibly destructive and uncontrolled even at the best of times. 

There is a notion, I think, that embedded itself deep into our culture due to having to deal with Daemons for so long, and that is that Chaos is bad. That is to say, that if Daemons are chaotic and are bad because of their chaotic nature, then order is good and a hypothetical creature of pure order would therefore be good. In old tales, these were known as Angels, which almost certainly never existed. 

Mons are predictable, they are simple. If I took two Psycubi and ensured they had similar Equipment then they would be exactly the same. Mons have a very limited number of states, which makes them very simple, more orderly.
These twin entities have heavily influenced our biologies through the Helix Mediums. You’d be forgiven for not knowing this, ancient human biology is hardly relevant to our day to day lives, but before the incursion humans needed to eat, sleep and especially breath to live. Our biologies have since been altered and while nobody is denying the intricacies of the human body, there’s no denying that superficially it’s simpler. It’s extremely easy to know how many hits a person can take from certain Moves before dying, it’s easy to predict which order Moves will occur in, and overall there is less variety in our genetic code.

What I’m trying to say is that the Star and the Wheel, and by extension all Mons, are creatures of order, anathema to the Warp and Daemons. Nearly their polar opposites. In a way, this would make them the angels of old tales, simply due to that fact. Daemons might be evil and destructive, but simply inverting that doesn’t result in good, just differently evil.
